---
layout: post
title: "Remote Reflections"
date: 2018-01-15
categories:
  - remote-work
description: "I've been remote for 5 months now..."
header-img: "img/posts/boats.jpg"
---

I've been working remotely for the past 5 months. I have left Vancouver, Canada,
sold my car, put all my furniture on storage, packed my clothes and laptop and
currently living in Sydney, Australia at the time of this writing.

It has been an amazing adventure so far. I have met a lot of interesting people
on the way. Working remotely has not been easy. There had been a few things that
I needed to learn quickly and be efficient at. It is one of those things that
you have to learn on the job.

## Being part of the culture while being away.

![celebrate](https://media.giphy.com/media/l0MYt5jPR6QX5pnqM/giphy.gif)

While being away from my work, I do get jealous that they do company outings,
beers on Friday afternoon, or even team lunch when welcoming a new team member.
But it's one of those things that there isn't actually a solution for. The
company cannot just give me a bonus to eat out by myself because even if you
did, nothing has changed, that is still not the company culture

Slack is a great tool for remote culture. I have found that I keep up with slack
more that I've been working remotely since that is the only way I can feel like
I'm still part of the team. Slack jokes, memes and gifs has become my way to
interact and be present with the company. Or at least because that is all there
is, slack.

On special occasions, it is nice for my employer to give our a few incentives
such as gift cards or additional allowance for celebrations that I have missed
such as the company Christmas party. Again, not the same but the gesture is
definitely appreciated.

## Working together: standups, planning sprints, submitting or receiving code reviews, delivery

I've worked on teams where synchronous standup works best and teams where
asynchronous standup has so much value. When a team writes blog posts from time
to time, the asynchronous standup has alot more value. Each day, the standup is
detailed to a point where the pull request just made sense because you can
follow the thinking behind it, or possibly has a description that details every
decision that was made. Some people might not like it because each pull request
or github issue becomes a thesis. Definitely not for a team who does not like
reading or writing.

However, when a team does not write as much, synchronous stand up is more
valuable. I would admit that there is more team cohesion when doing synchronous
standups. In the my synchronous team, it made us feel that we are on the same
room, given that the internet connection allowed us to have a smooth sailing
meeting.

Sprint review becomes very boring. I find that it does not provide a lot of
value. Being remote, I tend to look at the "board" every few hours to look for
more things to work on. Since I am not interrupted in my work, I finish tickets
a bit faster and it would stay in review for longer time than usual. The only
way I can avoid this being stuck in review and testing is to have a
perfectionist mentality where my purpose in coding is to not have any review on
it and it should just go though testing and deployment. While when I give
reviews, I don't make it a blocker as much as I can.

I make it a point that my peers should not worry about the app on my timezone.
If there's anything that is happening, I will look after it when I can so their
evening should not be interrupted. My only ask from them is to respond to alert
when I'm sleeping which is the time they are in the office anyway. I try to
empower them to deploy past 4pm Monday to Thursday as well. This means, I'll
take over the deployment and watch over the app after they leave the office.

## Cabin fever. Not talking to anyone for days.

It is very likely that in a span of few days, I don't see people. When this
happens, it does get very lonely. I'm lucky that I have my wife with me. But I
have found that working out, going to the gym as much as I can has helped.
Exploring the city is also good but it is definitely easy to run out of free
fun.

Being as active as I can in meetups has been really helpful as well.
I have attended a variety of meetups in the city-- ruby and go meetups are my
faveourites so far.

I also have a tendency to over-work. I forget to take my lunch or even have a
5 minute breather in between tickets. I have found that I get burnt out when I
forget, so I have alarms to remind myself to take a break or eat lunch. For some
people, [pomodoro](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique) is a good
technique for this, however, it takes me more than 20 minutes to gain focus and
be on my zone. So, I have a 2 hour increment in between my breaks.

## Learning

If you, person who is reading this until now, has considered or considering
working remotely and have an opportunity to do so, do it! You'd see that you
will have more time to be productive and learn new languages and read books that
has been in your reading list for years. You'll meet amazing people that will
inspire you to write different apps in the new hipster language that you might
learn while being away from the routine of getting up semi-early to work in your
desk with fancy tea or coffee made by a tattooed barista with a man bun and
beard.

![celebrate](https://media.giphy.com/media/NldZOXRUZM8QU/giphy.gif)

A lot of people have told me, "Paulo, you are really lucky working remote and
just waking up, rolling out of bed, getting your laptop and start working.". And
while this is true, it is not without complications. I have more autonomy over
my time since there is no one looking over my shoulder, but this also entails a
lot of discipline.

I would work for synchronously again in a few months and I'm interested on how
that would play out. Maybe I will like working in an office again, or maybe I
would just want to work in some ratchet hostel surrounded my mosquitoes so I can
talk to different people of different cultures after work. Maybe it's the
millenial in me that I think no one should ever work in a confined space, or
maybe it will be important for me to have a high performance team that won't
have a work-life balance.

Whatever the future holds, I am thankful that I have done this experiment of
woring remotely because I have learned more about my career and myself way more
than when I was working in an office.
